---
layout: single
published: true
toc: true
title: "CPANSec CNA Revised Disclosure Dates"
date: 2026-07-03 12:00:00 +0000
tags: cna cve embargo llm ai disclosure
authors:
  - robrwo
  - sjn
  - stigtsp
---

# CPANSec CNA Revised Disclosure Dates

[TOC]

## Summary (TL;DR)

- LLMs are powering vulnerability discovery, and many consider their results to be public already.
- This means the vulnerability landscape is becoming more urgent. Slow response times mean more time to exploit.
- To reduce the impact of this change, generous embargoes are going away.
- Instead, we assign a CVE immediately, notify authors about the vulnerability, and offer a default 14-day disclosure delay before the CVE is published.
- This delay period may still be extended, if the author requests it.
- We may post issues about a vulnerability in an issue tracker or pull request as part of the disclosure process.

---

## Long embargos are becoming short disclosure delays

At the [Perl Toolchain Summit in April 2026](https://perltoolchainsummit.org/pts2026/), members of the CPANSec CNA decided to reduce the _default_ disclosure delay ("embargo") for publishing vulnerabilities from 28 days to 14 days.

The feedback from some CPAN authors about this change has not always been positive, so we wanted to write down in detail why we have made this change.

This change is largely due to changes in the technology used for security research, notably the availability of cheap computing power through cloud services and security scanning tools such as fuzzers and large language models (LLMs).

While LLMs are often derided for generating error-ridden "slop", they are useful tools for identifying common patterns across large numbers of documents.
The availability of source code, refemce websites, books, blogs and forums online as a training corpus means that when used for vulnerability scanning, they can identify common patterns associated with security flaws, and they can combine multiple flaws into exploitable vulnerabilities.
The technology has improved, from "slop" to "sloppy" but with the aide of additional tools to guard against mistakes, LLMs can produce useful vulnerability reports.

The public nature of these tools means that anyone using these tools to find vulnerabilities can find them.
If someone has found a bug, then anyone else using those tools will find that bug.
In other words, the community consensus is that vulnerabilities are "public" [1] [2] [3].

There are consequences to this change.

### LLM-generated security reports are a reality

Many people in the open-source community have resevrations about the quality, ethics and politics of this technology.
(And some of us in the Perl community and CPANSec do as well.)

Whether we like it or not, the source code of many open source projects have been ingested by LLMs, and people are using those LLMs to generate security and other bug reports.

Refusing to engage with security reports that are generated by unethical technologies is an understandable stance, but it does not make the reported security issues go away, nor does it prevent anyone from using those vulnerabilities to attack systems.

### Minor issues matter

The technology also allows a lot of small vulnerabilities to be connected into a critical vulnerability.

A small error when parsing text may seem like a trivial issue, but it could be part of a chain that allows someone to gain unauthorised access to a system.

Software does not run in a vacuum.
It is run on machines with other software, and on networks with other machines, all of them interacting with each other.

Some of those machines may be operating mobile networks, heating or cooling systems, controlling manufacturing machinery, navigation systems or medical equipment.
Software bugs have real-world consequences.

### Downstream users matter

Security bugs affect the users more than the developers.

It is *their* systems that can be affected.

And it is *their* users (citizens, customers, or patients) who are affected when systems are shut down, or information is stolen.

### Projects are anticipating a flood of duplicate reports

Some projects [1] have started receiving duplicate, LLM-generated reports.

Projects like Alpha-Omega have been supporting open source ecosystems by providing them with funds and access to LLMs to get a head start on identifying and fixing security issues.
This includes the CPANSec April Task Force.

However, this only front-loads the flood of reports beforce newer technologies become more widely available.

### The volume of security reports requires some bureacracy to manage them

A security team needs to evaluate a report before even contacting the project's owner,

   - Is the report valid?
   - Is the issue for something in our ecosystem?
   - Does it affect other projects in the ecosystem?
   - Who owns the project? How do we contact the owners securely?

and afterwards work with that person,

   - Does the owner agree this is a vulnerability?
   - Do we need to re-evaluate the report?
   - Will the owner release a fix?
   - Otherwise, can we develop a patch?
   - What steps can users take to protect themselves?
   - If the owner has released a fix, does it actually fix the issue?

The security team has to track this information and coordinate with project maintainerss in a secure manner.

And the CNAs for the ecosystem also have to publish CVEs for vulnerabilities.

Of course, this already takes time (and is separate from or in parallel with the 14-day disclosure delay).

### Long embargos for vulnerabilities about open source projects problematic

If the wide availability of this technology means that reports are "public", then attackers have access to this too.
This means that delays in releasing fixes or notifying people how to mitigate flaws puts people at risk.
(This is not just the downstream developers using a project, but the users of that software, and the customers or patients of those users.)

In response, some projects  have decided to remove embargoes for LLM-generated reports, notably the [Linux Kernel](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/commit/?id=36d49bba19f2c19c933d13b25dcf4eb607a030b3) .

However, it is perceived as unfair to open source developers when vulnerability is immediately published, especially when many of them are volunteers who maintain their projects in their spare time.

But it is also unfair to delay notifying users about steps they can take to protect themselves, especially when attackers might already know about these vulnerabilities.

Long embargoes means that details of unpublished security vulnerabilities which security teams have gathered becomes a prime target for attack.

A consensus in the security community is leaning towards a shorter disclosure delay of 14-days that gives most open source developers a chance to
release a fix, e.g. [4].

(We have decided to replace the use of the term "embargo" for "disclosure delay".
In some of our messages to CPAN Authors we used the term "grace period" but have not decided against that, as it has the connotation of a moral fault.
That is not our intention.)

## Perl and CPANSec

The Perl ecosystem (like other open-source ecosystems) is not a single project, but a community of multiple projects and multiple users.
CPANSec needs to support the authors *and* the users.
And CPANSec needs the support and trust of the authors and users.

CPANSec has decided that 14-days is usually enough time for most projects, and provides a good balance between giving authors enough time to fix a release and users timely information that they can use,

When we reach out to module authors about a security issue, we will notify them of this policy, with the suggested disclosure date, but allow them to request an extension if they provide a reason for it.
If you believe this is not enough time for you, let us know.

We also offer to provide assistance, including patches.

CPANSec's workflow is outlined in more detail at [https://security.metacpan.org/docs/cve-workflow.html](https://security.metacpan.org/docs/cve-workflow.html).
A FAQ about our CNA process is at [https://security.metacpan.org/docs/cna-faq.html](https://security.metacpan.org/docs/cna-faq.html).

## CPAN Authors

Our [advice](https://security.metacpan.org/docs/guides/maintainer-security-reports.html) is "Don't panic" and also "Don't be ashamed".
We understand.
A lot of us are perfectionists and/or some pride into our work, and security issues and other bugs can sting.
But our goal is to improve the security of the ecosystem (which includes downstream users, not just the project's developers),
and we need your help.

First and foremost, please make sure your contact email address is correct and reachable, both in your modules and on PAUSE.
If you previously have used a [cpan.org email forward address](https://security.metacpan.org/2026/06/14/cpan.org-email-forwarding-shutdown.html), please change it to something that actually reaches you.

It is also worth finding other authors that you trust to have co-maintenance rights to your module.
This means that if you will have collaborators who can help fix security issues.

Next, add a [security policy](https://security.metacpan.org/docs/guides/security-policy-for-authors.html) with a single point of contact.
Source repositores like GitHub support setting up [private security advisory reporting form](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/working-with-repository-security-advisories/configuring-private-vulnerability-reporting-for-a-repository),
that allows people to create private issues which you and your collaborators can work on.

If you do not want to maintain a module anymore, flag that by handing maintenance to [ADOPTME](https://neilb.org/2013/08/07/adoptme.html).
You'll still have maintenance rights but another author will be able to take it over.
You can also announce this in other forums to find interested authors who might take the module over.

If the module is no longer suitable for use, then you release a last version that marks it as [deprecated](https://neilb.org/2015/01/17/deprecated-metadata.html) and update the documentaiton accordingly, ideally with recommended alternatives.

If you use a code repository with an issue tracker such as GitHub, ensure that MetaCPAN isn't linking to a separate queue in RT. Your [module metadata](https://metacpan.org/pod/CPAN::Meta::Spec#resources) and documentation should point to the correct issue tracker.

## References

[1] Linus Torvalds, [Linux 7.1-rc4](https://lkml.org/lkml/2026/5/17/896), Linux Kernel Mailing List, 2026-05-17.

[2] Jeremy Stanley,[Coordinated Disclosure in the LLM Age](https://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2026/04/28/15), Open Source Software Security Mailing List, 2026-04-26.

[3] Filippo Valsorda, [Vulnerability Reports are not Special Anymore](https://words.filippo.io/vuln-reports/), 2026-06-23.

[4] Greg Dahlman, [Re: Coordinated Disclosure in the LLM Age](https://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2026/04/28/19), Open Source Software Security Mailing List, 2026-04-28.
